NAME
     ls -- list directory contents

SYNOPSIS
     ls [-RClaturgf1] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     For each operand that names a file of a type other than directory, ls displays its name as well as any
     requested, associated information.  For each operand that names a file of type directory, ls displays the names
     of files contained within that directory, as well as any requested, associated information.

     If no operands are given, the contents of the current directory are displayed.  If more than one operand is
     given, non-directory operands are displayed first; directory and non-directory operands are sorted separately
     and in lexicographical order.

     The following options are available:
    -1      (The numeric digit ``one''.)  Force output to be one entry per line.  This is the default when output
            is not to a terminal.
    -a      Include directory entries whose names begin with a dot (.).
    -C      Force multi-column output; this is the default when output is to a terminal.
    -g      This option is only available for compatibility with POSIX; it is used to display the group name in the
            long (-l) format output (the owner name is suppressed).
    -l      (The lowercase letter ``ell''.)  List in long format.  (See below.)  If the output is to a terminal, a
            total sum for all the file sizes is output on a line before the long listing.
    -t      Sort by time modified (most recently modified first) before sorting the operands by lexicographical order.
    -u      Use time of last access, instead of last modification of the file for sorting (-t) or long printing (-l).
    -R      Recursively list subdirectories encountered.
    -r      Reverse the order of the sort to get reverse lexicographical order or the oldest entries first (or
            largest files last, if combined with sort by size
    -f      Output is not sorted.  This option turns on the -a option.


                     The color designators are as follows:

                           a     black
                           b     red
                           c     green
                           d     brown
                           e     blue
                           f     magenta
                           g     cyan
                           h     light grey
                           A     bold black, usually shows up as dark grey
                           B     bold red
                           C     bold green
                           D     bold brown, usually shows up as yellow
                           E     bold blue
                           F     bold magenta
                           G     bold cyan
                           H     bold light grey; looks like bright white
                           x     default foreground or background

                     Note that the above are standard ANSI colors.  The actual display may differ depending on the color capabilities of the terminal in use.

                     The order of the attributes are as follows:

                           1.   directory
                           2.   symbolic link
                           3.   socket
                           4.   pipe
                           5.   executable
                           6.   block special
                           7.   character special
                           8.   executable with setuid bit set
                           9.   executable with setgid bit set
                           10.  directory writable to others, with sticky bit
                           11.  directory writable to others, without sticky bit

                     The default is "exfxcxdxbxegedabagacad", i.e. blue foreground and default background for regular directories, black foreground and red background for setuid executables, etc.